# Kata - February 2020

The theme for this magical month is _practicality_. We are going to solve
problems that come up regular in our every-day work with JavaScript-based
applications.

For all of these problems you will be using data from a file you will find in
this directory, `data.json`. Note that this file has not been loaded into the
default solutions file -- that is your first task.

## Problem #1: Sort by Property

We often run into a scenario in which we have an array of objects (as we do in
the `data.json` file), and have to sort that array by the value of some
property(ies) within it.

The goal of this first problem is to enable a developer to sort by any property
in the array of objects, and to be able to change the direction in which the
objects are sorted.

The function looks like this:

```js
function fn.sortBy = function(attr, reverse = false) {
  // Your code here ...
}
```

The test suite will test that:

1. When I pass a valid property as `attr`, I am returned the objects sorted by
   that property.
2. When I pass an invalid property (i.e. one that does not exist in any of the
   objects), I am returned the array in its original condition.
3. When I pass `true` as the second argument, the sort order is reversed.

_Hint on #2: The `sort` method in JavaScript does this by default, so long as
you haven't permanently changed the order of the array._

Also, note that you only have to consider sorting by one property at a time.

## Problem #2: Comma-Separated List of Names

Many times we pull specific values from an array of objects an use them in some
way on the front-end. Sometimes we map over the objects and figure that out on
the fly, other times -- like this time -- we want to receive the _mapped_ and
_joined_ result.

In this second scenario, you are to extract the values of the `name` properties
from the array, and return them, alphabetically sorted.

### Problem #3: Injecting Properties

Sometimes we have all these objects, but they don't contain the specific data we
want to use. Therefore, we must _transform_ the data first. In this case, we
want to split apart the `name` properties into their (up to) three parts. What
you should return is a new array of objects **in the original order they were
presented in `data.json`**, with each object having the following properties:

- `firstName`
- `middleName`
- `lastName`

If `middleName` doesn't have a value, the property should be set to `undefined`.

_Hint: Pay close attention to the sort order of the objects. If they were
manipulated in earlier operations, it will be difficult to put them back._

## Submitting Solutions

Your solution should be placed in the `solutions` directory. Copy the `_default.js` file to a file with your name on it (e.g. `sean.js`). You'll notice each function gets exported from the file. That's what we want for testing â€” don't change any of the boilerplate (you can delete comments).

First, install dependencies:

    $ yarn install

Then run the tests:

    $ yarn test

Once your solutions are passing, open a pull request with your changes, using the format: _[ID]: Name_ (e.g. `[2002]: Daniel`).

### Omitting Solutions

If you choose to complete one kata and not the other, you should delete the other function from your solutions file. Otherwise, the tests will fail.
